<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style02.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style03.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">What this book covers</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p class="mce-root"><a href="67a55e55-a5f7-4ced-a2ae-b81f77614eec.xhtml">Chapter 1</a><em>, Introducing and Installing Rust</em>, deals with installing the Rust toolset and using the basic tools.</p>
<p class="mce-root"><a href="d01e62f9-9349-4eaa-a63b-ab0e691c56cc.xhtml">Chapter 2</a><em>, Variables</em>, focuses on using different kinds of variables.</p>
<p class="mce-root"><a href="967a5f58-da17-4dae-850c-448c405b45f5.xhtml">Chapter 3</a><em>, Input and Output</em>, covers the basic I/O.</p>
<p class="mce-root"><a href="9a839bb4-2bb8-448c-9bfe-fef63fab99f1.xhtml">Chapter 4</a><em>, Conditions, Recursion, and Loops</em>, goes through the different loops and iterative methods of Rust.</p>
<p class="mce-root"><a href="8fe31315-5c12-4aaa-ab08-e4c18c3919f9.xhtml">Chapter 5</a><em>, Remember, Remember</em>, covers Rust's memory handling system.</p>
<p class="mce-root"><a href="24651b17-6de3-4f1a-a182-f90810b48934.xhtml">Chapter 6</a><em>, Creating Your Own Rust Applications</em>, gives you the task of building a complete Rust application.</p>
<p class="mce-root"><a href="c8b24f94-2b7a-474d-aa24-4fd0ceb615ce.xhtml">Chapter 7</a><em>, Matching and Structures</em>, teaches you compound data types and how to destructure them.</p>
<p class="mce-root"><a href="9764ae84-9948-4bc8-a9d7-7537b2f31723.xhtml">Chapter 8</a><em>, The Rust Application Lifetime</em>, covers Rust's unique ownership, borrowing, and lifetime system, which enables resource safety without garbage collection.</p>
<p class="mce-root"><a href="d6c48f90-429b-4465-ba88-6adb7ca437bb.xhtml">Chapter 9</a><em>, Introducing Generics, Impl, and Traits</em>, goes through Rust's generic types.</p>
<p><a href="4925c4c4-a4ec-4c62-8a2a-f5563e2592b6.xhtml">Chapter 10</a><em>, Creating Your Own Crate</em>, instructs you how to build your own contained packages of Rust code<span>.</span></p>
<p><a href="636b329f-0544-4c2d-9924-fcd12f105567.xhtml">Chapter 11</a><em>, <span class="ItalicsPACKT">Concurrency in Rust</span></em><span>, looks at concurrency and parallelism techniques.</span></p>
<p><a href="bfda4ae5-51e3-4714-95c5-75e1a44106b5.xhtml">Chapter 12</a><em>, Now It's Your Turn!</em>, gives you another set of tasks to complete.</p>
<p><a href="b22d5775-6084-4eda-af26-6dd545f50dd6.xhtml">Chapter 13</a><em>, The Standard Library</em>, covers Rust's standard library.</p>
<p><a href="6392ba81-7725-47e5-a5ce-ce2f7384a1d5.xhtml">Chapter 14</a><em>, Foreign Function Interfaces</em>, introduces techniques to interface Rust code with C programs.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>