<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Project 4 – memory</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p>In this project, you are to perform the following:</p>
<ol>
<li>Reserve a 1024-byte block of memory.</li>
<li>Fill that block of memory with random characters.</li>
<li>Create an array, which is also 1,024 bytes in size.</li>
<li>Copy the contents of the memory block into the array.</li>
<li>Create a string that is limited to 1,024 bytes and is set using the <kbd>capacity</kbd> function.</li>
<li>Copy the contents of the memory block into the string.</li>
</ol>
<p>At this point, you may be wondering why we have three identical blocks of memory. The simple reason is that you will now create a piece of code that will rotate each member in turn 3 times using a simple left-bit rotation and <span>then </span>3 times to the right.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>