<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Using a useful name</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p>Naming within a module is very important; it is going to be visible to anyone using it and should therefore describe what it does. The same applies to function names. For example, <em>f_to_c</em> is fine, but the whole point of a library is that you can get what you are after without having to second-guess what the author meant. A function name such as <em>fahrenheit_to_celcius</em> makes much more sense.</p>
<p>The same applies to modules. If I were to use <em>ra</em> for regression analysis, it might seem like a reasonable name to use, but is it clear? The name can mean anything here. It may seem like a lot of effort to create a module called <em>regression_analysis</em>, but it will help other users know what to expect.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>