<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">The task</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p>In this task, you are to take your code and put it into the <kbd>mathslib</kbd> crate. This may not be as simple as it seems. The library will need to take:</p>
<ul>
<li>A filename for the file containing the data</li>
<li>A vector containing either a <kbd>struct</kbd> or <kbd>tuple</kbd> that holds the data</li>
</ul>
<p>However, the problem doesn't lie in the data, but rather in the fact that, each time a calculation is made, the whole regression analysis has to be performed. For example, to calculate the standard deviation, you can't just pass in the results for the equation of a straight line—that won't work, but will cause the whole calculation to be performed again.</p>
<p>In terms of the speed of a library, this is very inefficient; you should calculate once and be able to draw out all answers from there. In terms of your code, this will require some re-organization.</p>
<p>Once you have done this, you should create the unit tests for each function and test them in your test rig app with both a vector then the filename.</p>
<p>You will need to add the documentation for this task to your current documentation.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>