<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">About the Authors</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p><strong>Paul Johnson</strong> has been writing software since the early 1980s on machines ranging from the ZX81 and servers to his trusty Mac, and has used more languages than he can remember. He is a qualified scuba diver and college lecturer. Paul lives with his wife, kids, and pets, and listens to an inordinate amount of rock and metal on Primordial Radio. This is his third book for Packt.</p>
<div class="packt_quote">As has been pointed out to me by my wife, I’m older now than before. That’s not to say that I’ve not learned things in that time. One of the more useful things I’ve learned is the Rust language. Life is about learning.<br/>
<br/>
<span>I’ve developed a number of server-side applications over the years, and hit many issues with memory management and ensuring safety across threads in an environment where other developers don’t always understand the need for such things; it’s been a nightmare. Rust simply removes these bad experiences.<br/></span><span><br/>
This book could not have been written without my wife, Becki. She has taken up the slack when I’ve needed to work and not complained when, instead of sunning myself in Turkey on holiday, I’ve been away on other things, so only there in body. Her patience, love, companionship, and poking me are the reason why it’s been done. Thanks, baby.<br/></span><span><br/>
Willow, Ollie, George, Rich, Ash (as well as Lou and Angel) have not really helped, but I want to give them a mention, as no book I write would be complete without giving them a mention.<br/></span><span><br/>
I need to thank the folks over at Packt who, throughout the writing of this book, have seen staff changes, numerous rewrites, and many other ups and downs, but all along have had a happy smile and encouraging word.<br/></span><span><br/>
Here’s to the next book, folks!</span><span><br/>
<br/></span></div>
<p class="mce-root"><strong>Vesa Kaihlavirta</strong> has been programming since he was 5, beginning with C64 Basic. His main professional goal in life is to increase awareness about programming languages and software quality in all industries that use software. He's an Arch Linux Developer Fellow and has been working in the telecom and financial industry for over a decade. Vesa lives in Central Finland, in Jyväskylä. Vesa worked on the final editing phase of <em>Learning Rust</em>.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>