<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">std::fmt</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p>This module is used for formatting and outputting strings.</p>
<div class="packt_infobox"><span>This module provides the </span><kbd>format!</kbd><span> macro for dealing with output. The macro is extremely powerful and very flexible, and provides a great deal of functionality.</span></div>
<p><span><strong>Structs, Traits, and Enums</strong></span></p>
<ul>
<li><strong>Structs</strong>: <kbd>Arguments</kbd> (represents a safely precompiled version of a format string and arguments), <kbd>DebugList</kbd>, <kbd>DebugMap</kbd>, <kbd>DebugSet</kbd>, <kbd>DebugStruct</kbd>, <kbd>DebugTuple</kbd> (helps with <kbd>fmt::Debug</kbd> implementations), <kbd>Error</kbd> (an error type returned from formatting a message into a stream), and <kbd>Formatter</kbd> (represents both where to emit formatting strings and how to format them).</li>
<li><strong>Traits</strong>: <kbd>Binary</kbd>, <kbd>Debug</kbd>, <kbd>Display</kbd>, <kbd>LowerExp</kbd>, <kbd>LowerHex</kbd>, <kbd>Octal</kbd>, <kbd>Pointer</kbd>, <kbd>UpperExp</kbd>, <kbd>UpperHex</kbd>, and <kbd>Write</kbd> (provides collection of methods that are required to format a message into a stream).</li>
<li><strong>Functions</strong>: <kbd>format</kbd> (takes a precompiled format string with arguments and returns a formatted string) and  <kbd>write</kbd> (takes an output stream, a precompiled format string and list of arguments. The arguments will be formatted according to the specified format string).</li>
</ul>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>