<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style02.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style03.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Preface</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p class="NormalPACKT"><span>Rust is a new programming language. It offers performance and safety that is equivalent to, or even surpasses, modern C++ while being a modern language with a relatively low barrier to entry. Rust's momentum, combined with its active and friendly community, promise a great future for the language.</span></p>
<p class="NormalPACKT"><span>While modern and fluent, Rust is not a particularly easy language. The memory management system keeps track of the life of every entity that is used in your program and is designed in such a way that this tracking can typically happen entirely at compile time. The Rust programmer's burden is to help the compiler when it cannot decide for itself what should happen. Since modern programming is possible without ever facing such responsibilities, a modern programmer may not immediately feel comfortable with Rust.</span></p>
<p class="NormalPACKT"><span>However, like all expertise and skill, the more difficult it is to attain, the more valuable it is, and this book is here to help you. This book covers the basics of Rust, enabling you to gain enough skills to start programming with it.</span></p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>