<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style02.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style03.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">A bit of a story</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p>The Mystery Mobile was heading down a very dark road. There was no way of knowing what was ahead. At a certain point, they came to a point in the road with three roads coming off. Each road had a sign on them saying <em>Exit</em>. Being the intrepid type, Freddie sent Velma down one road, Shaggy and Scooby down the second and Daphne down the third. Being the brave sort, Freddie would drive down the road. They did know, though, that the roads would feed back into the main road at some point.</p>
<p>They agreed that whoever reached the exit first would send a message to the others. They synchronized their watches and moved off, not knowing who would reach the exit first or even if the exit could be reached at all.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>