<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Hands-On Concurrency with Rust</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p style="font-size: 11px">Copyright © 2018 Packt Publishing</p>
<p style="font-size: 11px">All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, without the prior written permission of the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embedded in critical articles or reviews.</p>
<p style="font-size: 11px">Every effort has been made in the preparation of this book to ensure the accuracy of the information presented. However, the information contained in this book is sold without warranty, either express or implied. Neither the author, nor Packt Publishing or its dealers and distributors, will be held liable for any damages caused or alleged to have been caused directly or indirectly by this book.</p>
<p style="font-size: 11px">Packt Publishing has endeavored to provide trademark information about all of the companies and products mentioned in this book by the appropriate use of capitals. However, Packt Publishing cannot guarantee the accuracy of this information.</p>
<p style="font-size: 11px"><strong>Commissioning Editor:</strong> Aaron Lazar<br/>
<strong>Acquisition Editor:</strong> Chaitanya Nair<br/>
<strong>Content Development Editor:</strong> Akshada Iyer<br/>
<strong>Technical Editor:</strong> Mehul Singh<br/>
<strong>Copy Editor:</strong> Safis Editing<br/>
<strong>Project Coordinator:</strong> Prajakta Naik<br/>
<strong>Proofreader:</strong> Safis Editing<br/>
<strong>Indexer: </strong>Mariammal Chettiyar<br/>
<strong>Graphics:</strong> Jisha Chirayil<br/>
<strong>Production Coordinator:</strong> Aparna Bhagat</p>
<p style="font-size: 11px">First published: May 2018</p>
<p style="font-size: 11px">Production reference: 1290518</p>
<p style="font-size: 11px">Published by Packt Publishing Ltd.<br/>
Livery Place<br/>
35 Livery Street<br/>
Birmingham<br/>
B3 2PB, UK.</p>
<p style="font-size: 11px">ISBN 978-1-78839-997-5</p>
<p style="font-size: 11px"><a href="http://www.packtpub.com" target="_blank">www.packtpub.com</a></p>
<p class="mce-root"/>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>