<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">About the Reviewer</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p><strong>Tom Verbesselt</strong> started his career as a software engineer in the amazing early world of 3D scanning and printing. However, he couldn't ignore his passion for teaching, and so he became a lecturer at the graduate program at CVO Antwerpen (Antwerp, Belgium). He started his own IT consultancy firm in 2003 and cofounded OWIC, a non-profit organization dedicated to teaching open source software tools, in 2016. Currently, he is the head of the graduate program in IT at CVO Antwerpen, and he is passionate about mobile, web, and new technology.</p>
<div class="packt_quote">I have known Ivo for more than 10 years as a colleague at CVO Antwerpen. He is a born teacher and always willing to share his knowledge and insights. He is passionate about programming, and this book will give you all that you need to get started in Rust. <br/>
This book is a well guided tour around the Rust programming language. I was amazed by the speed, elegance, and possibilities of this programming language. After reading this book, you will have a solid foundation in the language and the advantages and possibilities that it offers. I've loved every page of it, and I hope you will do too.</div>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>