<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Functional Programming – a Comparison</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<ol>
<li>What is a function?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">A function defines a transformation, accepts data, and returns the result of the transformation.</p>
<ol start="2">
<li>What is a functor?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">A functor defines data, accepts a transformation, and returns the result of the transformation.</p>
<ol start="3">
<li>What is a tuple?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">A tuple is a container of a fixed number of miscellaneous values.</p>
<ol start="4">
<li>What control flow expression was designed for use with Enums?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Pattern matching expressions are a match for Enums, and vice-versa.</p>
<ol start="5">
<li>What is the name for a function with a function as a parameter?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Functions of functions are called higher-order functions.</p>
<ol start="6">
<li>How many times will <kbd>fib</kbd> be called in memoized <kbd>fib(20)</kbd>?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px"><kbd>fib</kbd> will be called 39 times. <kbd>fib</kbd> will be invoked 21 times.</p>
<ol start="7">
<li>What datatypes can be sent over a channel?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Sent data must implement <kbd>Send</kbd>, which is usually derived by the compiler automatically.</p>
<ol start="8">
<li>Why do functions need to be boxed when returned from a function?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Functions are traits so they do not have a known size at compile time. Therefore, they must either be parameterized or turned into trait objects with something like <kbd>Box</kbd>.</p>
<ol start="9">
<li>What does the <kbd>move</kbd> keyword do?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">The <kbd>move</kbd> keyword transfers ownership of variables to new contexts.</p>
<ol start="10">
<li>How could two variables share ownership of a single variable?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Indirect references, such as <kbd>Rc</kbd>, permit sharing references to the same data.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>