<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Functional Control Flow</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<ol>
<li>What is the ternary operator?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">The if condition is the ternary operator but has the unique Rust syntax of <kbd>if a { b } else { c }</kbd>.</p>
<ol start="2">
<li>What is another name for unit tests?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Unit tests are also called <strong>whitebox testing</strong>.</p>
<ol start="3">
<li>What is another name for integration tests?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Integration tests are also called <strong>blackbox testing</strong>.</p>
<ol start="4">
<li>What is declarative programming?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Declarative programming avoids implementation details when describing a program.</p>
<ol start="5">
<li>What is imperative programming?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Imperative programming focuses on implementation details when describing a program.</p>
<ol start="6">
<li>What is defined in the iterator trait?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">The iterator trait is defined by an associated <kbd>Item</kbd> type, and the required <kbd>next</kbd> method.</p>
<ol start="7">
<li>In which direction will fold traverse the iterator sequence?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px"><kbd>fold</kbd> will traverse an iterator from left to right, or more specifically, from first to last.</p>
<ol start="8">
<li>What is a dependency graph?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">A dependency graph is a directed graph that describes the dependency relationships between nodes. In our case, we use this to describe relationships of the form <em>x</em> must happen before <em>y</em>.</p>
<ol start="9">
<li>What are the two constructors of <kbd>Option</kbd>?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px"><kbd>Option</kbd> can be created as <kbd>Some(x)</kbd> or <kbd>None</kbd>.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>