<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style02.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style03.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Referencing data is faster</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p>There is a rule of thumb that referencing data is faster than copying data. Similarly, copying data is faster than cloning. This is not always true, but it is a good rule to consider when trying to improve program performance.</p>
<p>Here is a function that alternatively uses data by reference, copied, intrinsic cloned, or custom cloned:</p>
<pre class="p1"><span class="s1">extern crate flame;<br/></span><span class="s1">use std::fs::File;<br/><br/></span><span class="s1">fn byref(n: u64, data: &amp;[u64; 1024]) {<br/></span><span class="s1">   if n&gt;0 {<br/></span><span class="s1">      byref(n-1, data);<br/></span><span class="s1">      byref(n-1, data);<br/></span><span class="s1">   }<br/></span><span class="s1">}<br/><br/></span><span class="s1">fn bycopy(n: u64, data: [u64; 1024]) {<br/></span><span class="s1">   if n&gt;0 {<br/></span><span class="s1"><span class="Apple-converted-space">      </span>bycopy(n-1, data);<br/></span><span class="s1">      bycopy(n-1, data);<br/></span><span class="s1">   }<br/></span><span class="s1">}<br/><br/></span><span class="s1">struct DataClonable([u64; 1024]);<br/></span><span class="s1">impl Clone for DataClonable {<br/></span><span class="s1">   fn clone(&amp;self) -&gt; Self {<br/></span><span class="s1">      let mut newdata = [0; 1024];<br/></span><span class="s1">      for i in 0..1024 {<br/></span><span class="s1">         newdata[i] = self.0[i];<br/></span><span class="s1">      }<br/></span><span class="s1">      DataClonable(newdata)<br/></span><span class="s1">   }<br/></span><span class="s1">}<br/><br/></span><span class="s1">fn byclone&lt;T: Clone&gt;(n: u64, data: T) {<br/></span><span class="s1">   if n&gt;0 {<br/></span><span class="s1">      byclone(n-1, data.clone());<br/></span><span class="s1">      byclone(n-1, data.clone());<br/></span><span class="s1">   }<br/></span><span class="s1">}</span></pre>
<p>Here we declare array of <kbd>1024</kbd> elements. Then using the flamegraph profiling library we apply the above functions to measure the differences between reference, copy and clone performance:</p>
<pre class="p1"><span class="s1">fn main() {<br/></span><span class="s1">   let data = [0; 1024];<br/></span><span class="s1">   flame::start("by reference");<br/></span><span class="s1">   byref(15, &amp;data);<br/></span><span class="s1">   flame::end("by reference");<br/><br/></span><span class="s1">   let data = [0; 1024];<br/></span><span class="s1">   flame::start("by copy");<br/></span><span class="s1">   bycopy(15, data);<br/></span><span class="s1">   flame::end("by copy");<br/><br/></span><span class="s1">   let data = [0; 1024];<br/></span><span class="s1">   flame::start("by clone");<br/></span><span class="s1">   byclone(15, data);<br/></span><span class="s1">   flame::end("by clone");<br/><br/></span><span class="s1">   let data = DataClonable([0; 1024]);<br/></span><span class="s1">   flame::start("by clone (with extras)");<br/></span><span class="s1">   //2^4 instead of 2^15!!!!<br/></span><span class="s1">   byclone(4, data);<br/></span><span class="s1">   flame::end("by clone (with extras)");<br/><br/></span><span class="s1">   flame::dump_html(&amp;mut File::create("flame-graph.html").unwrap()).unwrap();<br/></span><span class="s1">}</span></pre>
<p>Looking at the runtime of this application, we see that the referenced data uses only a small sliver of the resources compared to copying or cloning this data. The default clone and copy traits unsurprisingly give a similar performance. The custom clone is really slow. It does semantically the same thing as all the others, but it is not as optimized at a low level.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>