<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Validating input and output</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">Preconditions and postconditions are a great way to lock down program behavior and find bugs or invalid states before they get out of hand.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">If you use macros to do this, then the preconditions and postconditions can optionally be run only in debug mode, and removed from production code. The built-in <kbd>debug_assert!</kbd> macro does this. However, using assertions for return values is not particularly elegant and, if you forget to check a branch with a return statement, then your postcondition won't be checked.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"><kbd>debug_assert!</kbd> is not a good choice for the validation of anything dependent on external data or otherwise nondeterministic behavior. When you want to check preconditions or postconditions in production code, you should instead use <kbd>Result</kbd> or <kbd>Option</kbd> values to handle exceptional behavior.</span></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1">Here are some examples of preconditions and postconditions in Rust:</span></p>
<pre class="p1"><span class="s1">use std::io;<br/><br/>//This function checks the precondition that [n &lt; 100]<br/></span><span class="s1">fn debug_precondition(n: u64) -&gt; u64 {<br/></span><span class="s1">   debug_assert!(n &lt; 100);<br/></span><span class="s1">   n * n<br/></span><span class="s1">}<br/><br/>//This function checks the postcondition that [return &gt; 10]<br/></span><span class="s1">fn debug_postcondition(n: u64) -&gt; u64 {<br/></span><span class="s1">   let r = n * n;<br/></span><span class="s1">   debug_assert!(r &gt; 10);<br/></span><span class="s1">   r<br/></span><span class="s1">}<br/><br/>//this function dynamically checks the precondition [n &lt; 100]<br/></span><span class="s1">fn runtime_precondition(n: u64) -&gt; Result&lt;u64,()&gt; {<br/></span><span class="s1">   if !(n&lt;100) { return Err(()) };<br/></span><span class="s1">   Ok(n * n)<br/></span><span class="s1">}<br/><br/>//this function dynamically checks the postcondition [return &gt; 10]<br/></span><span class="s1">fn runtime_postcondition(n: u64) -&gt; Result&lt;u64,()&gt; {<br/></span><span class="s1">   let r = n * n;<br/></span><span class="s1">   if !(r&gt;10) { return Err(()) };<br/></span><span class="s1">   Ok(r)<br/></span><span class="s1">}<br/><br/>//This main function uses all of the functions<br/>//The dynamically validated functions are subjected to user input<br/></span><span class="s1">fn main() {<br/></span><span class="s1">   //inward facing code should assert expectations<br/></span><span class="s1">   debug_precondition(5);<br/></span><span class="s1">   debug_postcondition(5);<br/><br/></span><span class="s1">   //outward facing code should handle errors<br/></span><span class="s1">   let mut s = String::new();<br/></span><span class="s1">   println!("Please input a positive integer greater or equal to 4:");<br/></span><span class="s1">   io::stdin().read_line(&amp;mut s).expect("error reading input");<br/></span><span class="s1">   let i = s.trim().parse::&lt;u64&gt;().expect("error parsing input as integer");<br/></span><span class="s1">   runtime_precondition(i).expect("runtime precondition violated");<br/></span><span class="s1">   runtime_postcondition(i).expect("runtime postcondition violated");<br/></span><span class="s1">}</span></pre>
<p>Notice that the user input is out of our control. The best option for validating user input is to return an <kbd>Error</kbd> condition if the input is invalid.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>