<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style02.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style03.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Generics and Polymorphism</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<ol>
<li>What is an algebraic data type?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">An algebraic data type i<span>s a kind of composite</span> <span>type formed by combining other types.</span></p>
<ol start="2">
<li>What is polymorphism?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Polymorphism is the quality of having many forms.</p>
<ol start="3">
<li>What is parametric polymorphism?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Parametric polymorphism is  the quality of having many forms according to a parameter.</p>
<ol start="4">
<li>What is a ground type?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">A ground type is a type that has no parameters, modifiers, or substitutions. For example, <kbd>i32</kbd> or <kbd>String</kbd>.</p>
<ol start="5">
<li>What is Universal Function Call syntax?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Universal Function Call syntax is used to disambiguate functions or methods. It looks like <span><kbd>Foo::f(&amp;b)</kbd> instead of <kbd>b.f()</kbd>.</span></p>
<div class="page">
<div class="layoutArea">
<div class="column">
<ol start="6">
<li>What are the possible type signatures of a trait object?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">A trait object is any signature for a trait that will give it a known size at compile time. Common examples of this are <kbd>&amp;Trait</kbd> or <kbd>Box&lt;Trait&gt;</kbd>.</p>
<ol start="7">
<li>What are two ways to obscure type information?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Trait objects and traits in general hide information. Associated types also reduce the amount of information necessary to interact with code.</p>
<ol start="8">
<li>How is a subtrait declared?</li>
</ol>
<div class="page">
<div class="layoutArea">
<div class="column">
<pre style="padding-left: 60px"><span>trait SuperTrait: SubTrait1 + SubTrait2 {}</span></pre></div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>