<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style02.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style03.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Functional Data Structures</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<ol>
<li>What is a good library to serialize and deserialize data?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">We recommend <kbd>serde</kbd>.</p>
<ol start="2">
<li>What do the hashtag derive lines in front of the struct declarations in <kbd>physics.rs</kbd> do?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">These are macros that will automatically derive trait implementations for these data structures.</p>
<ol start="3">
<li>Which comes first in parameterized declarations—lifetimes or traits?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Lifetime parameters must come before trait parameters in parameter declarations.</p>
<ol start="4">
<li>In a trait implementation, what is the difference between parameters on the impl, trait, or type?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">The <kbd>impl&lt;A,...&gt;</kbd> syntax defines what symbols will be parameterized. The <kbd>Trait&lt;A,...&gt;</kbd> syntax defines what trait is being implemented. The <kbd>Type&lt;A,...&gt;</kbd> syntax defines what type the trait is being implemented for.</p>
<ol start="5">
<li>What is the difference between a trait and a data class?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">The term <strong>data class</strong> is not a Rust term. Think of a data class as if it were a trait but without fewer limitations than what Rust might impose.</p>
<ol start="6">
<li>How should you declare that a package has multiple binaries?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">In <kbd>Cargo.toml</kbd>, list all of the binaries and their entry points:</p>
<pre style="padding-left: 60px" class="p1"><span class="s1">[[bin]]<br/></span><span class="s1">name = "binary1"<br/></span><span class="s1">path = "binary1.rs"<br/><br/></span><span class="s1">[[bin]]<br/></span><span class="s1">name = "binary2"<br/></span><span class="s1">path = "binary2.rs"</span></pre>
<ol start="7">
<li>How do you declare a structure field as private?</li>
</ol>
<p style="padding-left: 60px">Do not declare it as <kbd>public</kbd>. Fields are <kbd>private</kbd> by default.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>