<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Shipping a product without sacrificing quality</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p>The client has finished negotiating with your sales team—you won the contract. Now that the contract is signed, your team is on task to bring the simulation up to specification to run all of the elevator systems. The client has provided specifications for each of the three buildings, elevators, motor control, and braking systems. You also learn that the elevator motors have intelligent motor control software that regulates internal voltage and current dynamically. To control the motor, you will only be expected to supply the desired force output. The full specifications are as follows:</p>
<ul>
<li>For building 1, there are the following:
<ul>
<li><strong>Floor heights</strong>: 8m, 4m, 4m, 4m, 4m</li>
<li><strong>Elevator weight</strong>: 1,200 kg</li>
<li><strong>Elevator motor</strong>: Maximum 50,000 N</li>
<li><strong>Elevator driver</strong>: Software interface supplied</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>For building 2, there are the following:
<ul>
<li><strong>Floor heights</strong>: 5m, 5m, 5m, 5m, 5m, 5m, 5m, 5m</li>
<li><strong>Elevator weight</strong>: 1,350 kg</li>
<li><strong>Elevator motor</strong>: maximum 1,00,000 N</li>
<li><strong>Elevator driver</strong>: Software interface supplied</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>For building 3, there are the following:
<ul>
<li><strong>Floor heights</strong>: 6m, 4m, 4m, 4m</li>
<li><strong>Elevator weight</strong>: 1,400 kg</li>
<li><strong>Elevator motor</strong>: Maximum 90,000 N</li>
<li><strong>Elevator driver</strong>: Software interface supplied</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>The program now needs to work in operational mode, where new floor requests are accepted and added to the queue. The simulation should also continue to work, now with all three building specifications. The simulation should verify that promised performance and quality metrics are all satisfied. Other than that, your team is free to develop the project as you see fit.</p>
<p>You decide that now is a good time to rethink the organization of the project, with significant new changes required. Using good architecture and project organization practices, you will move code around accordingly to group components orderly and conveniently.</p>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>