<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>

                            <header>
                    <h1 class="header-title">Gathering project requirements</h1>
                </header>
            
            <article>
                
<p class="mce-root">Consider this situation: Your engineering firm is being considered for a contract to design software to control the elevators for a real estate developer. The contract lists three buildings under development with various heights and non-uniform elevator designs. The elevator designs are being finalized by other subcontractors and will become available shortly after the software contract is awarded.</p>
<p class="mce-root">To submit your proposal, your firm should demonstrate the basic capabilities of your elevator control software. Then, once awarded, you will be expected to integrate these capabilities into the final software, along with modifications that are necessary to accommodate the physical elevator specifications and behaviors.</p>
<p class="mce-root">To win the proposal, your team agrees on several key points on which to outperform competitors. Namely, your elevators should do the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>Take less time moving between floors</li>
<li>Stop at each floor location more precisely</li>
<li>Provide a smoother ride for passengers in transit</li>
</ul>
<p>As a program deliverable to accompany the project proposal, you are expected to provide a simulation of elevator behavior. You are responsible for further details and implementation.</p>
<p>The following questions should be resolved now:</p>
<ul>
<li>What data will the program access and store?</li>
<li>What input will the program expect?</li>
<li>What output should the program produce?</li>
</ul>
<p>After some deliberation, your team agrees on some behaviors:</p>
<ul>
<li>The program should emphasize the elevator's location, velocity, and acceleration. Velocity determines ride duration. Acceleration determines ride comfort. The location, at rest, determines stop precision. These are the key selling points that your company will emphasize, so the demonstration software should mirror the same message.</li>
<li>As input, the program should take a file describing the number of floors and floor height, and finally a list of floor requests for the elevator to process.</li>
<li>The output of the program should be real-time information regarding the elevator's location, velocity, and acceleration. After processing all floor requests, the program should print average and standard deviations for location, velocity, and acceleration.</li>
</ul>


            </article>

            
        </section>
    </div></body>
</html>