<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section data-type="colophon" epub:type="colophon" data-pdf-bookmark="Colophon"><div class="colophon" id="colophon">
  <h1>Colophon</h1>

  <p>The animal on the cover of <em>Programming Rust</em> is a Montagu’s crab (<em>Xantho hydrophilus</em>).</p>
  
  <p>This robust-looking crab has a muscly appearance with a broad carapace about 70 mm wide. The edge of the carapace is furrowed and the color is yellowish or reddish-brown. It has 10 legs (five pairs): the front pair of legs (the chelipeds) are equal in size with black-tipped claws or pincers; then there are three pairs of walking legs that are stout and relatively short; and the last pair of legs are for swimming. They walk and swim sideways.</p> 

<p>Montagu’s crab has been found in the northeastern Atlantic ocean and in the Mediterranean Sea. It lives under rocks and boulders during low tide. If one is exposed when a rock has been lifted, it will aggressively hold its pincers up and spread them wide open to make itself appear bigger.</p>

<p>This crab eats algae, snails, and crabs of other species. It is mostly active at night. Egg-bearing females are found from March through July and the larvae are present on plankton for most of the summer.
</p>

  <p>Many of the animals on O’Reilly covers are endangered; all of them are important to the world. To learn more about how you can help, go to <a href="http://animals.oreilly.com"><em>animals.oreilly.com</em></a>.</p>

  <p>The cover image is from <em>Wood’s Natural History</em>. The cover fonts are URW Typewriter and Guardian Sans. The text font is Adobe Minion Pro; the heading font is Adobe Myriad Condensed; and the code font is Dalton Maag’s Ubuntu Mono.</p>

</div></section></div></body>
</html>