<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section data-type="copyright-page" epub:type="copyright-page" data-pdf-bookmark="Programming Rust"><div class="preface" id="idm45625531560584">
<h1>Programming Rust</h1>

<p class="author">by <span class="firstname">Jim </span><span class="surname">Blandy</span>, <span class="firstname">Jason </span><span class="surname">Orendorff</span>, and <span class="firstname">Leonora </span><span class="surname">F.S. Tindall</span></p>

<p class="copyright">Copyright © 2020 Jim Blandy, Leonora F.S. Tindall, Jason Orendorff. All rights reserved.</p>

<p class="printlocation">Printed in the United States of America.</p>

<p class="publisher">Published by <span class="publishername">O’Reilly Media, Inc.</span>, 1005 Gravenstein Highway North, Sebastopol, CA 95472.</p>

<p>O’Reilly books may be purchased for educational, business, or sales promotional use. Online editions are also available for most titles (<a href="http://oreilly.com">http://oreilly.com</a>). For more information, contact our corporate/institutional sales department: 800-998-9938 or <span data-type="email"><em>corporate@oreilly.com</em></span>.</p>

<ul class="stafflist">
	<li><span class="staffrole">Acquisitions Editor:</span> Suzanne McQuade</li>
	<li><span class="staffrole">Developmental Editor:</span> Jeff Bleiel</li>
	<li><span class="staffrole">Production Editor:</span> Kristen Brown</li>
	<li><span class="staffrole">Interior Designer:</span> David Futato</li>
	<li><span class="staffrole">Cover Designer:</span> Karen Montgomery</li>
	<li><span class="staffrole">Illustrator:</span> Rebecca Demarest</li>
</ul>

<h1 class="revisions">Revision History for the Early Release</h1>

<ul class="releases">
	<li><span class="revdate">2020-02-03:</span> First Early Release</li>
	<li><span class="revdate">2020-04-23:</span> Second Early Release</li>
	<li><span class="revdate">2020-06-11:</span> Third Early Release</li>
	<li><span class="revdate">2020-08-26:</span> Fourth Early Release</li>
		<li><span class="revdate">2020-10-16:</span> Fifth Early Release</li>
			<li><span class="revdate">2020-12-07:</span> Sixth Early Release</li>
</ul>

<p class="errata">See <a href="http://oreilly.com/catalog/errata.csp?isbn=9781492052593">http://oreilly.com/catalog/errata.csp?isbn=9781492052593</a> for release details.</p>

<div class="legal">
<p>The O’Reilly logo is a registered trademark of O’Reilly Media, Inc. <em>Programming Rust</em>, the cover image, and related trade dress are trademarks of O’Reilly Media, Inc.</p>

<p>The views expressed in this work are those of the authors, and do not represent the publisher’s views. While the publisher and the authors have used good faith efforts to ensure that the information and instructions contained in this work are accurate, the publisher and the authors disclaim all responsibility for errors or omissions, including without limitation responsibility for damages resulting from the use of or reliance on this work. Use of the information and instructions contained in this work is at your own risk. If any code samples or other technology this work contains or describes is subject to open source licenses or the intellectual property rights of others, it is your responsibility to ensure that your use thereof complies with such licenses and/or rights.</p>
</div>

<div class="copyright-bottom">
<p class="isbn">978-1-492-05259-3</p>

<p class="printer">[LSI]</p>
</div>
</div></section></div></body>
</html>